I was fully vegan for about six months
instead of 2015 and I'm gonna give you
the absolute honest harsh truth here
because I feel like sometimes people
don't give the the harsh treat when they
like baby and it's so great bastard is
it is hard this is I'm giving it to you
so young woman named Rachel Lee so I'm
gonna choose to pronounce her name has
been complaining that vegans are on the
whole moralizing self-righteous punitive
abrasive overly intrusive and that they
deeply hurt her feelings by um
I don't know scrutinizing the hell out
of her and trying to hold her to a
higher moral standard what if she's
right vegan people on my youtube channel
were the nastiest ever and I was
completely shocked when you go to the
zoo do you go to the zoo to see the cage
or do you see the animal it left a
really bad taste in my mouth to do with
vegans veganism I was so angry and I was
so mad and I was so disgusted with the
word vegan I couldn't say it and I
couldn't write it and I couldn't have
anything to do with vegan stuff and it
just made me cringe like yes I was still
eating like vegan so I wanted nothing to
do with it anymore I didn't even want to
acknowledge the word I just couldn't
because it just had scarred me so much
from the nasty awful things that people
had said her experience is not unique
and it's not isolated
what most vegans do in response to this
is to try to dismiss the significance of
the experience to suggest that it's an
exception to the rule that it's
something that's not central to vegan
not a student not central to veganism
that it's something that's only coming
up intermittently due to some unusual
set of circumstances that reminds me a
bit of the excuses people make for
Catholicism I don't think it's say an
extrinsic minor or incidental part of
Catholicism that when you're really in a
Catholic culture your neighbors and your
grandparents are scrutinizing your
conduct against a Catholic standard what
if this really is an essential feature
of veganism because veganism is defined
in terms of ethics and morality it's
it's a bit intrusive it's a bit
oppressive you have people who think
they're your friends and you think you
trust them and like them and then they
see you holding a leather purse and
they're denouncing you it's a bit like
the Catholic grandmother who's so
friendly to you and so loving towards
you and I don't know feeds you when you
come to her house but she found she
finds that you got a tattoo and now
she's at you she's after you Catholics
aren't aren't that hard on tattoos
actually in general Jewish families and
Muslim families are much more concerned
about tattoos Japanese families are
against tattoos but I'm sorry it's it's
just a random example yeah you know
top-down prescriptive morality and how
that plays into authoritarian attitudes
and even how people act towards their
personal friends let alone their
husbands wives sons and daughters
it's not pretty it's an ugly potentially
violent side of human nature and for me
my response to it is not to pretend that
this is something minor or trivial or
incidental and veganism for me this is a
reason to care even more about democracy
and transparency and veganism even when
you're talking about small political
movements for me this is a reason to
really have you know to really gather
together the lessons learned from past
centuries of political movements to not
reproduce the errors made by communism
and socialism and even anti-slavery
movements would have you to not let
veganism fracture into cult groups or
political extremist groups but to really
have transparency democracy and
accountability and decision making
process with checks and balances where
to some extent we can expose and think
about me responsible for this tendency
that yeah leads to people denouncing one
another leads to people making nasty
attacks on one another look man if those
of you who are real big fans of my
youtube channel what if I accidentally
have a leather suitcase in the
background here on camera what you'd be
after me I get emails asking hey you
know that looks like a leather suitcase
and from my perspective fair is fair
because I'm cut out for it
I don't get upset but a lot of people
are not cut out for I would like to ask
that to every person that writes
something really nasty to me are they
aware that the nasty words made my
depression a lot
what it was a day away the way they
treated me actually tend me all wanting
to be vegan and I'll just say I learned
a lot
hanging out in Taiwan when people were
involved in veganism of different kinds
one of the lessons learned there was
that people said look there are many
different reasons to become people
including religious reasons health
reasons what-have-you but the only one
that lasts is the ethical reason when
people do it for ethics for morality
those the people who stay with it over
time and that was a perception in Taiwan
that was almost unique because they were
in a culture were in some ways you know
Taoism and Buddhism gave people a bit a
great variety of reasons to stop eating
meat possibly to stop eating eggs and so
on but the ethical resolution was the
one that lasted and the flip side of
that is exactly what Rachel E is
complaining about